---
title: 'Daily Review: $2.8 Billion Worth of Transactions Were Sent Over Bitcoin Network
  in a Single Day in November'
date: 2017-11-22 05:00:00 +05:30
tags:
- AiBank
- Asia
- Europe
- insights
- Tencent
- UnionPay
- US
- WeChat
- Zelle
Image: "/uploads/bitcointransactions.jpg"
Person: Elena Mesropyan
category:
- Blockchain
- Blockchain
- Cryptocurrency
- Bitcoin
- Fintech
- Insights
Markets:
- AiBank
- Asia
- Europe
- insights
- Tencent
- UnionPay
- US
- WeChat
- Zelle
type: post
status: publish
layout: post
---

<p>Bitcoin crosses new highs every other week despite sometimes unfavoring regulations coming into action. Last week was no exception – the value of daily transactions sent through Bitcoin network went from $200 million for the most part if January to $2.8 billion in a single day of November 16. Predictions suggest that <a href="https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-price-could-reach-10000-in-few-months-with-fund-managers-bullish-sentiment">Bitcoin will cross $10,000 in a few months</a> – a new record for daily transactions is not far. </p>
<h3>Bitcoin Now Processes $2 Billion Worth Of Transactions Per Day, A 10x Increase In 2017</h3>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">For most of January, roughly $200 million worth of Bitcoin was being sent around the Bitcoin network per day. Near the end of May, days where more than $700 million was transacted on the network were common.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">Roughly a billion dollars of value was sent around the Bitcoin network per day in early August. This number declined down to $600 million by late September before exploding to $1.5 billion by late October.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">November 16 set a new all-time high for value transacted over the Bitcoin network in a single day at $2,803,405,660.</li>
</ul>
<p><a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/ktorpey/2017/11/20/bitcoin-now-processes-2-billion-worth-of-transactions-per-day-a-10x-increase-in-2017/#4bf6191a2fba">Read more</a>.</p>
---
<h3>Public transportation is the new battleground for Chinese dragons: WeChat Hitches Ride on Guangzhou Metro</h3>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">Guangzhou Metro passengers can now pay for their rides with the WeChat messaging app, as <a href="https://u.caixinglobal.com/search/%22Tencent%22.html">Tencent</a> competes with its rival Alibaba to get on track in the public transportation sector.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">Commuters in the southern metropolis have been able to take the subway after allowing the turnstile to scan a QR code generated by a WeChat in-app mini program. The turnstiles can scan the codes within 0.3 seconds. </li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">The system also supports offline payments. Passengers without an internet connection can travel first and pay later when they are next online.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">As on the Guangzhou Metro, travelers on the Shanghai maglev line can use Alipay to pay for their tickets by scanning a QR code.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">The public transportation sector has recently become the latest battleground for major mobile payment players like Tencent and Alibaba, who both hope to make an early entrance and secure a better position.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">WeChat faces competition from payment service provider UnionPay, which has also joined with Guangzhou Metro to provide mobile payment services for passengers.</li>
</ul>
<p><a href="https://www.caixinglobal.com/2017-11-20/wechat-hitches-ride-on-guangzhou-metro-101173588.html">Read more</a>.</p>
---
<h3>China Citic, Baidu launch direct bank in FinTech  push</h3>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">China Citic Bank Corp and search engine giant Baidu launched a direct banking joint venture called AiBank on Saturday. A direct bank offers services over the internet instead of through physical branches.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">AiBank will focus on lending to individuals and small businesses. The service will leverage big data and AI to build new risk control models. About 60% of employees will be technology staff.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">Citic Bank owns 70% of the joint venture, Baidu controls the remaining 30%. The direct bank has a registered capital of 2 billion yuan.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">Alibaba and Tencent have already set up their own finance arms to offer a range of financial products including payment, wealth management, and micro-loans.</li>
</ul>
<p><a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-banks/china-citic-baidu-launch-direct-bank-in-fintech-push-idUSKBN1DI04D">Read more</a>.</p>
---
<h3>ACI Partners with Zelle® to Offer Real-Time Payments for Financial Institutions. ACI powers real-time, digital, secure P2P payments for leading payments network</h3>
<ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">ACI Worldwide has been named a technology partner of the Zelle Network®. ACI provides integration for Financial Institutions (FIs) to connect to Zelle. Zelle processed more than 160 million real-time P2P transactions since January 2017. </li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">ACI’s support for Zelle will result in banks being able to accelerate speed to market, reduce risk and create new revenue streams. Zelle delivers an easy-to-use consumer experience built into both mobile banking apps and a Zelle stand-alone app. Consumers can easily connect to Zelle — all protected by the security of their financial institutions.</li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;">“Zelle is increasing P2P payments adoption by creating a common payments experience for consumers — regardless of which bank they use,” said William Proctor, VP, ACI Worldwide.</li>
</ul>
<p><a href="https://www.aciworldwide.com/news-and-events/press-releases/2017/november/aci-partners-with-zelle-to-offer-real-time-payments-for-financial-institutions">Read more</a>.</p>
<p><i>Featured image credit: Steemit.</i></p>
<p></p>
